Adding Settings Registry section to the User Guide (#1623)
o3de/o3de.org: content/docs/user-guide/settings/settings-registry-developer-documentation.md

  * [Platform Gem Loading](#platform-gem-loading)
* [Explicit Gem Activation](#explicit-gem-activation)
  * [Ex. Activating a Gem for the AutomatedTesting Project ](#gem-dependency-automatedtesting)
  * [Disable Autoloading of Gem Modules](#disable-autoloading-of-gem-modules)
    * [Ex. Disabling specific Gem modules from autoloading when activated as part of the AutomatedTesting Project](#disable-autoloading-of-chatplay-module)
    * [Disable Autoloading for a user](#disable-autoloading-at-the-user-level)
    * [Disable Autoloading for a project](#disable-autoloading-at-the-project-level)
    * [Disable Autoloading for a platform](#disable-autoloading-at-the-platform-level)
  * [How to Load Gems in C++](#advanced-topic-load-gems-in-cpp)
* [Add AssetProcessor Scan Folder for Gems using the Settings Registry](#assetprocessor-scan-folder-support)
  * [Gem Asset Scan Folders](#gem-asset-scan-folders)
    * [assetprocessor\_settings.setreg](#assetprocessorsettings-setreg)
* [Convert Windows Style INI file to JSON format](#convert-windows-style-ini-file-to-json-format)
* [Settings Registry - Debugging](#settings-registry-debugging)
  * [MSVC Debugging](#msvc-debugging)

> <a id="WhatIsTheSettingsRegistry"></a>

Reviewer: Don't need html anchors, markdown supports anchor like mechanisms

Author: While markdown does support anchor like mechanisms, the naming scheme of those anchors are ambigious between the different flavors of markdown.
Some markdown replaces non html support characters with dashes(i.e '?') and some require that to link to the implicit anchor made by a header tag `#`, `##`, `###` etc..., it requires prefixing the anchor with the name of the document

4.  Next each gem's `<GemRoot>/Registry` folder is searched for settings.
5.  A registry folder within the Project path is searched for settings next: `<ProjectRoot>/Registry`
6.  Afterwards the global user setting registry located at `~/.o3de/Registry` is merged again to make sure the global user settings override any engine, gem or project settings
7.  Next the user specific per project `<ProjectRoot>/user/Registry` folder is merge. This folder should not be in source control as it is meant to be user specific
8.  Finally the Command Line is merged again by checking for "--regset", "--regset-file" and "--regremove" options to override any other settings

<a id="SettingsRegistrySearchPathLauncher"></a>
### GameLauncher/ServerLauncher search locations for Settings Registry files
---

The Project's GameLauncher and ServerLauncher applications have an additional search location of within the Project's Root Cache directory(`<ProjectRoot>/Cache/<platform>`) for an aggregated `bootstrap.*.setreg` file that is generated by the AssetProcessor.

<a id=SettingsRegistryAssetBuilder></a>
### AssetProcessor SettingsRegistryBuilder
---

> The AssetProcessor contains a builder for aggregating all of the settings from the following locations as well as the command line that was supplied to the invocation of the AssetProcessor into a `bootstrap.game.<config>.<platform>.setreg` file

Author: Will do

```c++
// Make sure the AzPhysics::SceneConfiguration class is reflected
void SceneConfiguration::Reflect(AZ::ReflectContext* context)
{
    Physics::WorldConfiguration::Reflect(context);

    if (auto* serializeContext = azrtti_cast<AZ::SerializeContext*>(context))
    {
        serializeContext->Class<SceneConfiguration>()
            ->Version(1)
            ->Field("LegacyConfig", &SceneConfiguration::m_legacyConfiguration)
            ->Field("LegacyId", &SceneConfiguration::m_legacyId)
            ->Field("Name", &SceneConfiguration::m_sceneName)
            ;
    }
}

// ... Later on the SceneConfiguration class can be loaded from the SettingsRegistry using the `GetObject` function
AzPhysics::SceneConfiguration sceneConfig;
bool configurationRead = false;

AZ::SettingsRegistryInterface* settingsRegistry = AZ::SettingsRegistry::Get();
if (settingsRegistry)
{
    configurationRead = settingsRegistry->GetObject(sceneConfig, "/Amazon/Gems/PhysX/DefaultSceneConfiguration");
}
```

### [Visitor Based API](#visitor-based-api)
---

> The visitor API is the preferred API for querying objects. It supports recursively visiting the JSON object and array children starting at a specified json pointer.

Author: Well the Visitor API works in the absence of SerializeContext reflection of a type, while the GetObject API requires SerializeContext reflection.

    // as desired to received the notification events
    AZ::SettingsRegistryInterface::NotifyEventHandler assetChangedHandler = registry.RegisterNotifier(AZStd::move(assetCacheChangedCB));
    // ...
    registry.Set("/O3DE/Runtime/FilePaths/CacheRootFolder", "/home/testuser/TestCache");
}
 // When the assetChangedHandler scope ends, will unregister itself with the Settings Registry Notifier event
 // If the handler is desired to persist, it can be stored in a member variable to extend it's lifetime

```

## Merge API
-----------------

The most complex part of the Settings Registry is the merging API. There three primary types of input that can be supplied to the Settings Registry for merging.

1.  Input with the syntax \<JSONPointerPath>=\<value>. It is treated as if command line parameters are being merged
2.  An in-memory json document
3.  A path to a file/folder containing .setreg/setregpatch files.

The order in which settings are merged to the registry is important. Keys root at the same location that merged later have precedence over keys seen earlier.

> i.e If there is "file1.setreg" that has the content at key "/O3DE/AzFramework/MyArray"

Author: I'll use the streamer setreg files as an example

| cmake\_dependencies.automatedtesting\_gamelauncher.setreg | Yes - contains the "automatedtesting\_gamelauncher" tag that is part of the tag allowlist |
| cmake\_dependencies.automatedtesting.automatedtesting\_gamelauncher.setregpatch | Yes - illustrates that the .setregpatch extension also works |
| cmake\_dependencies.automatedtesting.automatedtesting\_gamelauncher | No - missing a .setreg or .setregpatch extension |
| automatedtesting.cmake\_dependencies.setreg | No - "cmake\_dependencies" is not part of the tag set |
| cmake\_dependencies.setreg | Yes - contains no tags at all |
| automatedtesting.setreg | Yes - Again contains no tags; "automatedtesting" is seen as the stem of the filename, not a tag" |

An alternative to using the Specialization system of the `AZ::SettingsRegistryInterface::MergeSettingsFolder` function is to load each file through the `AZ::SettingsRegistryInterface::MergeSettingsFile` function

1.  Use AZ::IO::SystemFile::FindFiles to search for .setreg/.setregpatch files.
2.  Then pass each file to AZ::SettingsRegistryInterface::MergeSettingsFile

> 

Author: I'll add a step to indicate that Platform specific setreg files could be found by using the FindFiles command a second time by appending the directory of `Platform/${PAL_PLATFORM_NAME}`

That location is at the user's ~/.o3de/Registry directory

After the Settings Registry merges in the settings registry files within the user's global registry , it then checks the AZ CommandLine for all --regset options and merges each `<JSON pointer path, value>` pair into the Settings Registry.

```bash
# Override the Project via "project_path" value in the Settings Registry
# The SerializeContextTools will load up the Gems needed to run the project located at <EngineRoot>/AutomatedTesting
SerializeContextTools.exe --regset="/Amazon/AzCore/Bootstrap/project_path=AutomatedTesting" convert -files=AutomatedTesting/project.physicsconfiguration -ext=physics.setreg
```

<a id="regdump-cli-example"></a>
## Ex. - Using "--regdump" to dump the JSON object containing the bootstrap settings to stdout
---

```bash
# Dumps all the values underneath the "/Amazon/AzCore/Bootstrap to stdout
Editor.exe --regdump="/Amazon/AzCore/Bootstrap"
```

# Loading Gems through the Settings Registry

<a id="automatic-gem-dependency-loading"></a>
## Automatically loading the list of gem build dependencies for an Application
---

> Part of the Engine Initialization and Configuration work that uses the settings registry was to support using CMake to output a list of "tag" build dependencies for a CMake Target that should load through the O3DE module system.

Author: Yeah I'll just remove mentions of the internal project name

This is used to automatically load gems based on the build dependencies of a CMake Target.

With these changes, listing the gem modules to load through the Game.xml/Editor.xml file is no longer used

> The following illustrates how to generate a settings registry(.setreg) file that contains a list of gem build dependencies for a VoxelEditor CMake Target.

Author: Yes, I'll use the term hypothetical

<a id="assetprocessorsettings-setreg"></a>
#### assetprocessor\_settings.setreg
---

```json
{
    "Amazon": {
        "AssetProcessor": {
            "Settings": {
                "ScanFolder Blast/Scripts": {
                    "watch": "@GEMROOT:Blast@/Editor/Scripts",
                    "display": "Blast/Scripts",
                    "recursive": 1,
                    "order": 101
                }
            }
        }
    }
}
```

# Convert Windows Style INI file to JSON format

To help facilate converting windows style INI settings over to use the Settings Registry, the SerializeContextTools exposes a "convert-ini" option. The "convert-ini" option can accept one or more Windows-ini style files and convert them to .setreg files that can be loaded via the Settings Registry

Below is an example of converting the `AssetProcessorPlatformConfig.ini` and the `user.cfg` to a setreg file

**convert-ini**

```bash
<CMakeBinaryDir>/bin/profile/SerializeContextTools.exe convert-ini --files AssetProcessorPlatformConfig.ini;user.cfg --ext setreg --json-prefix="/O3DE/Settings"
```

<a id="settings-registry-debugging"></a>
# Settings Registry - Debugging

## MSVC Debugging
---

> The Settings Registry maintain is settings in a `rapidjson::Document` that is member that is part of the `AZ::SettingsRegistryImpl`.

Author: Yeah I'll clarify this

---
linktitle: Settings Registry Developer Guide
title: Settings Registry Developer Guide
description: Explains what the Settings Registry feature of O3DE and how developers can interact with it.
weight: 400
---

> * [Overview - What is the Settings Registry?](#WhatIsTheSettingsRegistry)

Author: Yeah, this ported over from when this documented was exported from confluence.
I'll remove the Table of Contents(TOC) sections from all the document

    * [Disable Autoloading for a user](#disable-autoloading-at-the-user-level)
    * [Disable Autoloading for a project](#disable-autoloading-at-the-project-level)
    * [Disable Autoloading for a platform](#disable-autoloading-at-the-platform-level)
  * [How to Load Gems in C++](#advanced-topic-load-gems-in-cpp)
* [Add AssetProcessor Scan Folder for Gems using the Settings Registry](#assetprocessor-scan-folder-support)
  * [Gem Asset Scan Folders](#gem-asset-scan-folders)
    * [assetprocessor\_settings.setreg](#assetprocessorsettings-setreg)
* [Convert Windows Style INI file to JSON format](#convert-windows-style-ini-file-to-json-format)
* [Settings Registry - Debugging](#settings-registry-debugging)
  * [MSVC Debugging](#msvc-debugging)

<a id="WhatIsTheSettingsRegistry"></a>
# Overview - What is the Settings Registry?

The settings registry is a feature within AzCore that allows querying a json document using JSON [Pointer](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6901) syntax.
It acts as a central repository of global settings within all Applications that uses it in O3DE.

> The settings registry can read any valid json files which contain the .setreg extension. The json files do not have to following any specific format.

Author: It should all be JSON(Lots of Find -> Replace are going to be needed for this one)

The settings registry combines multiple json values into one document by merging json values using either the [JSON Patch](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6902) format or the [JSON Merge Patch](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7386) format.
This allows overriding values within the settings registry by loading either a .setreg file which is merged using the JSON Merge Patch strategy or a .setregpatch file which is merged using the Json Patch strategy.
In simple terms the Settings Registry can be thought of a wrapper around a JSON DOM that can query and set values within that DOM using JSON Pointer.
Values can be also be queried by visiting a path within the JSON document which can be used to construct objects from the JSON DOM without the need of reflection.

<a id="JSONPatchPrimer"></a>

> ## JSON Patch/Merge Patch Primer

Author: Well the "JSON Patch" and "JSON Merge Patch" is a proper noun.
The only thing that should be lower case is "Primer"

The settings are loaded in the following order and merged into a single local Settings Registry which is then serialized out to the bootstrap.game.\*.setreg files

*   `<engine-root>/Registry`
*   `<gem-root>/Registry` for each gem loaded within the AP
*   `<project-root>/Registry`
*   (Non-Release Only) `<user-home>/.o3de/Registry`
*   (Non-Release Only) `<project-root>/user/Registry`
*   (Non-Release Only) `--regset`/`--regremove` command line parameters supplied to the AssetProcessor

For example on android the following files will be output to the project's asset cache android folder

*   bootstrap.game.debug.setreg
*   bootstrap.game.profile.setreg
*   bootstrap.game.release.setreg

When loading applications in non-monolithic mode, the `<ExeDirectory>/Registry` is searched for a cmake\_dependencies.\*.setreg which contains the list of gems to load. For non-host platforms such as Android or iOS where the files are deployed according to a specific layout, the `<ProjectCachePlatformRoot>/Registry` is searched as well. This is explained in more detail below in the Loading Gems section.

---
**NOTE**: Stale Settings Troubleshooting

> If the GameLauncher or ServerLauncher application is launched before the Asset Processor has the opportunity to update the `bootstrap.game.<config>.setreg` file, then  up-to-date settings might not load until until the next run of the launchers.

Author: ```suggestion
If the GameLauncher or ServerLauncher application is launched before the Asset Processor has the opportunity to update the `bootstrap.game.<config>.setreg` file, then up-to-date settings might not be available until the next run of the Launchers.
```

2.  An in-memory json document
3.  A path to a file/folder containing .setreg/setregpatch files.

The order in which settings are merged to the registry is important. Keys that are merged later have precedence over keys seen merged earlier.

i.e If there is "streamer.setreg" that has the content at key "/O3DE/AzFramework/MyArray"

```json
{
    "O3DE":
    {
        "AzFramework":
        {
            "MyArray":
            [
                "String1",
                "String3",
                "String5",
            ],
            "MyObject":
            {
                "AssetKey": "{80CCDA30-1F70-4982-ADE9-62D3DEE332D4}"
            }
        }
    }
}

```

and a "streamer.editor.setreg" that is merged later with the same "/O3DE/AzFramework/MyArray" key

```json
{
    "O3DE":
    {
        "AzFramework":
        {
            "MyArray":
            [
                true,
                false,
                75,
                "StringX",
                "InnerObject":
                {
                    "MyKey": "PathKey"
                }
            ]
        }
    }
}
```

The settings registry will contain the following keys and values

> ```json

Author: This isn't actually JSON syntax.
So I am removing the json language tag

```suggestion
```ini
```

D:\o3de\o3de\windows_vs2019\bin\profile\Registry\cmake_dependencies.automatedtesting.assetprocessorbatch.setreg
D:\o3de\o3de\windows_vs2019\bin\profile\Registry\cmake_dependencies.automatedtesting.automatedtesting_gamelauncher.setreg
D:\o3de\o3de\windows_vs2019\bin\profile\Registry\cmake_dependencies.automatedtesting.editor.setreg

```

## Platform Gem Loading
---

Gems can be built and loaded on a per platform specific basis via the ly\_enable\_gems function being to be called multiple times for a given variant with PAL(Platform Abstraction Layer) paths.
CMake supports several Platform Abstraction variables that can be used to include specific enabled gems files based on the current platform(Windows, Mac, Android, etc...)

**Example: Specifying Target General and Platform Specific Gem Dependencies Together**

```cmake
o3de_pal_dir(pal_dir ${CMAKE_CURRENT_LIST_DIR}/Platform/${PAL_PLATFORM_NAME} "${gem_restricted_path}" "${gem_path}" "${gem_parent_relative_path}")
# Read a platform specific cmake file that contains the names of gems to activate
ly_enable_gems(PROJECT_NAME AtomTest GEM_FILE ${pal_dir}/enabled_gems.cmake)
```

> # Explicit Gem Activation

Author: I'll move all of the gem activation and gem loading information into a new `settings-registry-gem-system.md` page
